Update grafana tikv dashboard doc (#3042)
pingcap/docs: grafana-tikv-dashboard.md

aliases: ['/docs/dev/grafana-tikv-dashboard/','/docs/dev/reference/key-monitoring-metrics/tikv-dashboard/']
---

> # The metrics description of TiKV

Reviewer: Please also change Line 2 and Line 3 accordingly.
```suggestion
# Description of TiKV Monitoring Metrics
```

> # Description of TiKV Monitoring Metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Key Monitoring Metrics of TiKV
```

If you use TiUP to deploy the TiDB cluster, the monitoring system (Prometheus/Grafana) is deployed at the same time. For more information, see [Overview of the Monitoring Framework](/tidb-monitoring-framework.md).

The Grafana dashboard is divided into a series of sub dashboards which include Overview, PD, TiDB, TiKV, Node_exporter, and so on. A lot of metrics are there to help you diagnose.

> You can get an overview of the component TiKV status from the **TiKV-Details** dashboard, where the key metrics are displayed. According to the [Performance Map](https://asktug.com/_/tidb-performance-map/#/), you can check whether the status of the cluster is as expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can get an overview of the component TiKV status from the **TiKV-Details** dashboard, where the key metrics are displayed.
```

- Total Ops Details by CF (Table Scan)：The number of RocksDB internal operations for each CF per second when executing select scan in coprocessor
- Total Ops Details by CF (Index Scan)：The number of RocksDB internal operations for each CF per second when executing index scan in coprocessor

## Threads

- Threads state：The state of TiKV threads
- Threads IO：The I/O traffic of each TiKV thread
- Thread Voluntary Context Switches：The number of TiKV threads voluntary context switches
- Thread Nonvoluntary Context Switches：The number of TiKV threads nonvoluntary context switches

## RocksDB - kv/raft

- Get operations：The count of get operations per second
- Get duration：The time consumed when executing get operations
- Seek operations：The count of seek operations per second
- Seek duration：The time consumed when executing seek operations
- Write operations：The count of write operations per second
- Write duration：The time consumed when executing write operations
- WAL sync operations：The count of WAL sync operations per second
- Write WAL duration：The time consumed for writing WAL
- WAL sync duration：The time consumed when executing WAL sync operations

> - Compaction operationsThe count of compaction and flush operations per second

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Compaction operations: The count of compaction and flush operations per second
```

- Block cache hit：The hit rate of block cache
- Block cache flow：The flow rate of block cache operations per type
- Block cache operations: The count of block cache operations per type
- Keys flow：The flow rate of operations on keys per type
- Total keys：The count of keys in each column family
- Read flow：The flow rate of read operations per type
- Bytes / Read：The bytes per read operation
- Write flow：The flow rate of write operations per type
- Bytes / Write：The bytes per write operation
- Compaction flow：The flow rate of compaction operations per type
- Compaction pending bytes：The pending bytes to be compacted
- Read amplification：The read amplification per TiKV instance
- Compression ratio：The compression ratio of each level
- Number of snapshots：The number of snapshots per TiKV instance
- Oldest snapshots duration：The time that the oldest unreleased snapshot survivals
- Number files at each level：The number of SST files for different column families in each level
- Ingest SST duration seconds：The time consumed to ingest SST files
- Stall conditions changed of each CF：Stall conditions changed of each column family

## Titan - All

> - Blob file count：The number of Titan blob file

Reviewer: The same for the following `file` items, which should be in plural form.
```suggestion
- Blob file count：The number of Titan blob files
```

- Blob file size：The total size of Titan blob file
- Live blob size：The total size of valid blob record
- Blob cache hit：The hit rate of Titan block cache
- Iter touched blob file count：The number of blob file involved in a single iterator

> - Blob file discardable ratio distribution：The distribution of blob file failure blob record ratio

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Blob file discardable ratio distribution：The ratio distribution of blob record failure of blob files
```

- Blob key size：The size of Titan blob keys
- Blob value size：The size of Titan blob values
- Blob get operations：The count of get operations in Titan blob
- Blob get duration：The time consumed when executing get operations in Titan blob
- Blob iter operations：The time consumed when executing iter operations in Titan blob
- Blob seek duration：The time consumed when executing seek operations in Titan blob
- Blob next duration：The time consumed when executing next operations in Titan blob
- Blob prev duration：The time consumed when executing prev operations in Titan blob
- Blob keys flow：The flow rate of operations on Titan blob keys
- Blob bytes flow：The flow rate of bytes on Titan blob keys
- Blob file read duration：The time consumed when reading Titan blob file
- Blob file write duration：The time consumed when writing Titan blob file
- Blob file sync operations：The count of blob file sync operations

> - Blob file sync duration：The time consumed when sync blob file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Blob file sync duration：The time consumed when synchronizing blob file
```

- Blob GC action：The count of Titan GC actions
- Blob GC duration：The Titan GC duration
- Blob GC keys flow：The flow rate of keys read and written by Titan GC
- Blob GC bytes flow：The flow rate of bytes read and written by Titan GC
- Blob GC input file size：The size of Titan GC input file 
- Blob GC output file size：The size of Titan GC output file
- Blob GC file count：The count of blob files involved in Titan GC

## Lock manager

- Thread CPU：The CPU utilization of the lock manager thread
- Handled tasks：The number of taks handled by lock manager

> - Waiter lifetime duration：The time consumed for the transaction waitting for the lock to be released

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Waiter lifetime duration：The waiting time of the transaction for the lock to be released
```

> - Wait table：The status information of wait table, including the number of locks and the number of transactions waitting for the lock

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Wait table：The status information of wait table, including the number of locks and the number of transactions waiting for the lock
```

- Deadlock detect duration：The time consumed for detecting deadlock
- Detect error：The number of errors encountered when detecting deadlock, including the number of deadlocks

> - Deadlock detector leader：The information about the node where the deadlock detector leader is located

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Deadlock detector leader：The information of the node where the deadlock detector leader is located
```

## Memory

- Allocator Stats：The statistics of the memory allocator

## Backup

- Backup CPU：The CPU utilization of the backup thread
- Range Size：The histogram of backup range size
- Backup Duration：The time consumed for backup
- Backup Flow：The total bytes of backup
- Disk Throughput：The disk throughput per instance
- Backup Range Duration：The time consumed for range backup
- Backup Errors：The number of errors encountered when making a backup

## Encryption

- Encryption data keys：The total number of encrypted data keys
- Encrypted files：The number of encrypted files
- Encryption initialized：It shows whether encryption is enabled, `1` means enabled.
- Encryption meta files size：The size of meta file about encrpytion
- Encrypt/decrypt data nanos：The histogram of time on encrypting/decrypting data ecch time
- Read/write encryption meta duration：The time consumed for reading/writing encryption meta file

## 面板常见参数的解释

### gRPC 消息类型

> 1. 使用事务型接口的命令：

Reviewer: Please translate the Chinese text.

> - Backup Range Duration：The time consumed for range backup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Backup Range Duration：The time consumed for backing up a range
```

> - Backup Errors：The number of errors encountered when making a backup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Backup Errors：The number of errors encountered during a backup
```

> - Encryption initialized：It shows whether encryption is enabled, `1` means enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Encryption initialized：Shows whether encryption is enabled. `1` means enabled.
```

> - Encryption meta files size：The size of meta file about encrpytion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Encryption meta files size：The size of the encryption meta file
```

> - Encrypt/decrypt data nanos：The histogram of time on encrypting/decrypting data ecch time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Encrypt/decrypt data nanos：The histogram of duration on encrypting/decrypting data each time
```

    - kv_get：The command of getting the latest version of data specified by ts

>     - kv_scan：The command of scanning a continuous piece of data

Reviewer 2: use "a range of data"

    - kv_prewrite：The command of prewriting the data to be committed at first phase of 2PC

>     - kv_pessimistic_lock：The command of adding a pessimistic lock to the key to prevent other transaction from modifying

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - kv_pessimistic_lock：The command of adding a pessimistic lock to the key to prevent other transaction from modifying this key
```

    - kv_pessimistic_rollback：The command of deleting the pessimistic lock on the key
    - kv_txn_heart_beat：The command of updating `lock_ttl` for pessimistic transactions or large transactions to prevent them from rolling back
    - kv_check_txn_status：The command of checking the status of the transaction
    - kv_commit：The command of committing the data written by prewrite command
    - kv_cleanup：The command of rolling back a transaction, it will abolished in 4.0
    - kv_batch_get：The command of getting the value of batch key at once, similar to `kv_get`.
    - kv_batch_rollback：The command of batch rollback of multiple prewrite transaction
    - kv_scan_lock：The command of scanning all locks with a version number before `max_version` to clean up expired transactions
    - kv_resolve_lock：The command of committing or rollback the transaction lock, according to the transaction status.
    - kv_gc：The command of GC
    - kv_delete_range：The command of deleting a continuous piece of data from TiKV

> 2. 非事务型的裸命令：

Reviewer: ditto

>     - kv_cleanup：The command of rolling back a transaction, it will abolished in 4.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - kv_cleanup：The command of rolling back a transaction, which is deprecated in v4.0
```

>     - kv_delete_range：The command of deleting a continuous piece of data from TiKV

Reviewer 2: ditto

    - raw_get：The command of getting the value of key
    - raw_batch_get：The command of getting the value of batch keys

>     - raw_scan：The command of scanning a continuous piece of data

Reviewer 2: ditto

>     - raw_batch_scan：The command of scanning multiple consecutive data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - raw_batch_scan：The command of scanning multiple consecutive data range
```

    - raw_put：The command of writing a key/value pair
    - raw_batch_put：The command of writing a batch of key/value pairs
    - raw_delete：The command of deleting a key/value pair
    - raw_batch_delete：The command of a batch of key/value pairs

>     - raw_delete_range：The command of deleting a continuous interval

Reviewer 2: ditto, use data rather than inerval

# Key Monitoring Metrics of TiKV

If you use TiUP to deploy the TiDB cluster, the monitoring system (Prometheus/Grafana) is deployed at the same time. For more information, see [Overview of the Monitoring Framework](/tidb-monitoring-framework.md).

The Grafana dashboard is divided into a series of sub dashboards which include Overview, PD, TiDB, TiKV, Node_exporter, and so on. A lot of metrics are there to help you diagnose.

> You can get an overview of the component TiKV status from the **TiKV-Details** dashboard, where the key metrics are displayed.

Reviewer: @hunterlxt This is a Chinese web page (asktug) so we'd better remove it from the English document. If you have an English page, it is OK to put it here.

> You can get an overview of the component TiKV status from the **TiKV-Details** dashboard, where the key metrics are displayed.

Reviewer 2: No, this is an English web page
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/18193301/87858994-9b70e080-c964-11ea-96e5-5b14f0ac490e.png)

> You can get an overview of the component TiKV status from the **TiKV-Details** dashboard, where the key metrics are displayed.

Reviewer 2: I don't know that an chinese page exists, if you have, pls post here.
